then the Lord said to me even if Moses
and Samuel stood before me my mind would
not be favorable toward this people cast
them out of my sight and let them go
forth and it shall be if they say to you
where should we go
then you shall tell them thus says the
Lord such as are for death to death and
such as offer the sword to the sword and
such as are for the famine to the famine
and such as are for the captivity to the
captivity and I will appoint over them
four forms of destruction the sword to
slay the dogs to drag the birds of the
heavens and the beasts of the earth to
devour and destroy I will hand them over
to trouble to all kingdoms of the earth
because of Manasseh the son of Hezekiah
king of Judah for what he did in
Jerusalem for who will have pity on you
O Jerusalem or who will bemoan you or
who will turn aside to ask how you are
doing you have forsaken me
you have gone backward therefore I will
stretch out my hand against you and
destroy you
I am weary of relented and I will win o
them with a winnowing fan in the gates
of the land I will bereaved them of
children I will destroy my people since
they do not return from their ways their
widows will be increased to me more than
the sand of the Seas I will bring
against them a
against the mother of the young men a
plunderer at noonday
I will cause anguish and terror to fall
on them suddenly she languishes who has
born seven she has breathed her last her
son has gone down while it was yet day
she has been ashamed and confounded and
the remnant of them I will deliver to
the sword before their enemy says the
Lord woe is me my mother that you had
borne me a man of strife and a man of
contention to the whole earth I have
neither lent for interest nor had men
lent to me for interest every one of
them curses me
the Lord said surely it will be well
with your remnant surely I will cause
the enemy to intercede with you in the
time of adversity and in the time of
affliction can anyone break eye on the
northern island and the bronze your
wealth and your treasures I will give as
plunder without price because of all
your sins throughout your territories
and I will make you cross over with your
enemies into a land which you do not
know for a fire is kindled in my anger
which shall burn upon you
Oh Lord you know remember me and visit
me and take vengeance for me on my
persecutors in your enduring patience do
not take me away know that for your sake
I have suffered rebuke your words were
found and I ate them and your word was
to me the joy and rejoicing of my heart
for I am called by your name
Oh Lord God of hosts I did not sit in
the Assembly of the mockers nor did I
rejoice I sat alone because of your hand
for you have filled me with indignation
why is my pain perpetual and my wound
incurable which refuses to be healed
will you surely be to me like an
unreliable stream as waters that fail
thus says the Lord
if you return then I will bring you back
you shall stand before me if you take
out the precious from the vial you shall
be as my mouth let them return to you
but you must not return to them and I
will make you to this people a fortified
bronze wall and they will fight against
you but they shall not prevail against
you for I am with you to save you and
deliver you
I will deliver you from the hand of the
wicked and I will redeem you from the
grip of the terrible